1.How many reserved words are there in Java?
There are 54 reserved words are there in Java including _.

2.How many reserved literals are there and what are those?
There are three reserved literals are there those are true, false and null.

3.Under keywords how many keywords are not in-use and what are those?
There are two keywords which are not in use those are const and goto.

4.What is the other alternative we have for a keyword const?
Final is a keyword which we have for the alternative of const.

5.Why go to statement is not in use in Java?
Go to statement increases the complexity in the code and creates confusion for the reader. This type of complexity 
in understanding the code is called spaghetti code. So in order to reduce the confusion and complexity in writing and understanding the code
keyword goto is not used.

6.In which version of Java constant and go to keywords are added in Java?
in version Java 1.1.

7.how many used keywords are there in Java?
including _ there are 49 keywords are there in Java.

8.Can we use _ as variable name( identifier) in Java?
Before Java 8 we can use _ as variable name. But in Java eighth version this rule has been stopped. and then we used to get error from Java 8 version.

9.Can we use _ in between the digits offer number to improve the readability in Java?
Yes we can use.
int a = 10_23_456;
System.out.println(a);

10.how many contextual words are there in Java?
Including when contextual word there are 17.

11.What is the purpose of yield keyword in switch?
it acts similar to the operation of return keyword in a method. it returns the value from the switch.

12.What is var keyword in Java?
It is the type of keyword used to identify the type of the data and it creates respect you variable of the data type.


13.Can I use var data type for global variables?
No you cannot use var data type for global variables.

14.Can I use var data type for arguments in method?
No we cannot use var data type for arguments in method.

15.In which version where keyword is introduced in Java?
In Java 10.

16.In which version keyword yield is added?
In Java 14

17.in which version of Java keyword when is added?
In Java 21.

18.Can we use yield and when keyword outside the switch?
No these two keywords are especially designed to use in switch.

19. Can we use reserved words as identifiers in Java? 
No. since, reserved words have pre-defined meaning which understood by compiler and JVM.

20. How many tokens are there in Java?
7.

21. List all the tokens in Java.
KILOSCS
keywords
identifiers
literals
operators
separators
comments
white space
